[Music]
can anyone believe that these are the
homemade mice and masala dosas they look
amazing right these are very easy to
make so let's get started to how to make
this my Sue masala dosa and literally
there are many variations of the
proportions to prepare the batter for
the dosa or even Italy if you are going
to use this proportion the outcome will
be you get a crispy dosa and and it
literally melts in your mouth because of
the poha and that's because it gives
sponginess and the crisp penis comes
from the rice this is a great way to
prepare a very good dosa for though my
Sood masala dosa or any dosa and here
are the list of the ingredients that you
need to prepare this dosa the
preparation of the dosa is a multi-step
process it involves an soaking and the
preparing the batter and fermenting the
batter and then making the dosas so it
takes a long time so before you get
started you make sure that you have the
enough time to prepare all this stuff so
first of all we need to add all these
four ingredients and along with the
meaty Donna or the fenugreek seeds you
need to mix all the ingredients and wash
them and rinse them well using the fresh
water and drain all the water and add
the fresh water again and then rest it
for a couple of hours and overnight
should be best so later on we are going
to grind it to make a coarse batter not
a very smooth batter for the dosa but it
should be a little bit of course
yesterday night have done that the
soaking process is completed and as you
see all the greens and the doll has
plumped up and doubled in the volume and
it would be great while blending it will
be easy and for grinding you can use the
or the mixer or the normal blender so
let's get started with our blending
process I've drained all the water from
the rice that have been soaking
overnight and this water is helpful in
aiding the fermentation process while
blending the dolls and the rice I'm
gonna use the same water in which the
doll and the rice have been soaking I'm
just gonna add a little bit of the
mixture about 1/4 cup
approximately into the London on top I'm
gonna use the grinder over here and into
this I'm gonna add a little bit of water
I'm gonna start off using the little
amount of dough rise in the doll mixture
a little amount of water otherwise it
will be not blended properly so now I'm
gonna start this process I'm gonna add
the remaining mixture in regular
intervals about 4 to 5 minutes and blend
everything the same way I'm going to
show you just I'm going to add a little
bit of water
make sure that you scrape off the sides
of the grinder or the blender so that
the mixture will be grinded evenly and
you don't find any lumps or the grains
left in the batter and I'm gonna just
add a little bit rice on the doll
mixture and carry on with the blending
process till I finish everything I'm
again gonna add a little bit of water
and start the blending again and now
here we go I'm gonna aren't everything
I'm done making the batter and I ended
up using about 1 cup of water while
blending this and the texture of the
battery should look like this it's a
little bit on coarse side not very
smooth so now this goes into the warm
oven so that it gets fermented well I'm
gonna just cover this and I've already
warmed up the oven to about 180
Fahrenheit or approximately 200
Fahrenheit should be fine with the
batter and I've turned it off after it
reached that certain temperature how to
turn it off and now I'm gonna move this
onto the form oven you can just leave it
in a warm place but here in here in the
place where we are living now it's very
cold right now so I'm gonna move this on
to the warm oven which I have heated up
and turned it off to about 180
Fahrenheit are about 200 Fahrenheit
should be fine too and after every four
hours or five hours I'm going to take
off the batter from the oven and again
warm the oven to about 200 Fahrenheit
and turn it off and just pop it into the
oven and I'll be carrying on for every
four to five hours about two to three
times so that it gets fermented well so
now we'll be back after about
approximately 10 to 12 hours of
fermentation so that the dosa batter
will be fermented well it's been about
12 hours now so let's check on the dosa
batter I think it has got fermented very
well actually I can see a lot of bubbles
over here this says that it has very bad
fermented now I'm gonna add salt to this
this is according to your taste I'm
gonna add about 1 teaspoon after the
fermentation process it's actually
thickened up so now I'm gonna add about
1 by 4th cup of water to this to
it into the right consistency but
totally in the preparation of dosa
batter I approximately used about one
and a half cups of water approximately
but it differs so be careful while
adding the water and the consistency of
the batter should look like this
it's not thick and not too thin and it's
perfect actually I can see a lot of
bubbles and this is how the batter
should look like your aha got a pan I'm
gonna check it if it's hot then it's
ready I have tested by adding some water
so now it's ready to make the dosa just
spread the batter in a circular motion
cook it for 30 seconds and afterwards
I'm gonna add some oil to this I'm gonna
add a little bit of oil to this and cook
it for about a minute till you can find
the brown specks from the topside now
I'm gonna flip this actually some people
don't like to cook them on the both of
the sides but I like to cook them on
both sides just flip this and I'm gonna
cook for about 30 seconds not again I'm
gonna flip this on to another side and
I'm gonna apply the chutney the recipe
for this onion chutney is on my channel
so you can check it and you can make it
it just tastes so great I just love this
chutney you can apply it as much as you
like but be careful it's gonna be spicy
I'm gonna
at the Illuma G you also can check this
recipe on my channel so now it's ready
I'm just gonna close this like this and
wow it just looks awesome it has got a
wonderful blonde color and it looks just
amazing and now I'm gonna just move this
on to the serving platter I'm gonna
serve this dosa along with some chutney
you can find the recipe for this chat me
on my channel I'm gonna prepare the
dough sauce with the remaining batter
the same way so enjoy this dosa the Mike
Zulu masala dosa with your family and
thank you so much for watching my videos
and I'll be back soon with another
recipe till then bye-bye
[Music]